Skip to content
Menu
Facebook Page
Instagram
Twitter
Bluesky
Threads
TikTok
Block Club Chicago
Block Club ChicagoYour Neighborhood News Site
SUBSCRIBE Sign In
Open Search
Latest Stories NeighborhoodsOpen dropdown menu Arts & Culture Investigations Newsletters Podcasts Donate ShopOpen dropdown menu
TopicsBusiness Block Club Eats LGBTQ+ News Weather Things To Do Openings & Closings Neighborhood Maps
Posted inCitywide
Donated Toys Can Return To City Parks, Leaders Say After Taking Heat For Removing Them Last Year
After a controversial crackdown on shared playground toys, neighbors and park leaders worked together to create a new system that encourages community sharing — with a few rules.

by Patrick Filbin
29 minutes ago
Credibility:
Original Reporting
On the Ground
Sources Cited

Kids play after the playground at Oz Park is reopened following renovations in Lincoln Park on July 22, 2024. Credit: Colin Boyle/Block Club Chicago
CITYWIDE — Thanks to the efforts of a few dedicated neighbors and the chorus of hundreds of parents across the city, the Park District has a new policy on toys: They can stay at the parks — as long as they have a proper home.

After a wave of parent backlash over the sudden removal of donated toys from city parks last summer, the Park District is rolling out a new policy that acts as a compromise.

Under the new rules, volunteer-run park advisory councils can install weatherproof, lockable toy boxes for families to leave toys so others at the park can borrow them. It’s a small but meaningful shift that formalizes what many families see as a longstanding, unofficial tradition of community sharing.

“It’s not a perfect solution, but it’s a solution,” said Jacob Ringer, president of the Ballard Park Advisory Council.


For years, parents and neighbors brought push cars, scooters and sand toys to public parks and playgrounds and left them behind for other children to enjoy. But in June, the Park District began enforcing a little-known rule that bans leaving personal property — including toys — in city parks, citing safety and sanitation concerns.


A Chicago Park District sign warning families that any unattended toys will be removed from public parks. Credit: Patrick Filbin/Block Club Chicago
Officials said the decision was prompted by reports of vandalism and at least one unconfirmed injury involving a toy. Crews began clearing out any playthings left behind, frustrating parents who saw the items as symbols of generosity and community.

The cleanup left many playgrounds bare and families upset.

Parents described the toys as essential, especially for families without outdoor space at home. Some called the crackdown an overreaction. Others questioned whether perfectly good toys were simply being thrown away.

The Park District has now carved out a middle ground where the volunteer park advisory councils — also known as PACs — that support individual parks can apply for permission to install a single “PAC toy box” per park.

The boxes must meet strict size and safety requirements, be weatherproof and closable, and clearly state that toys should not be left outside the container, Park District spokesperson Michele Lemons said.

Park advisory councils are responsible for funding, maintenance and making sure broken toys are removed, Lemons said.

“It’s still my hope that the Park District will not direct staff to throw toys away anymore,” Ringer said. “And maybe just toss them into the toy box if they’re left out.”


Ehrler Park in Bucktown on Sept. 15, 2022. Credit: Colin Boyle/Block Club Chicago
The push to bring back the toys started last summer, when Ringer noticed the ones at his local park were suddenly gone. He met with the Park District’s then-superintendent, Rosa Escareño, and eventually testified at two Park District board meetings.

One of the ways Ringer convinced members of the board to hear him out was to identify loopholes in the district’s policy.


“I pointed out some of the holes in the logic,” Ringer said. “For example, if a kid left a scooter in the park, it was going to get thrown out. But if an adult left an electric scooter, that was fine. That didn’t make any sense to me.”

After months of organizing, public testimony and policy negotiations, Ringer and a working group within the Park District landed on the current compromise: Toys can stay — as long as they’re returned to a designated box.


Englewood kids learn about taking care of the environment with art through the Chicago Park District’s Young Cultural Stewards program at Hamilton Park on July 26, 2023. Credit: Colin Boyle/Block Club Chicago
Ringer hopes the policy inspires more neighbors to get involved with their local parks.

“There are a lot of parks that don’t have advisory councils yet,” he said. “So maybe this can be a good incentive. Sign up, take ownership, raise a couple hundred bucks and buy a toy box for your neighborhood park.”

Still, Ringer said he wishes the process hadn’t taken so long or required quite so much organizing.

“Sometimes it just takes a while for common sense to catch up,” he said.

To learn more about how to join or start a park advisory council in your neighborhood, visit the Park District’s website.

Support Local News!

Subscribe to Block Club Chicago, an independent, 501(c)(3), journalist-run newsroom. Every dime we make funds reporting from Chicago’s neighborhoods. Already subscribe? Click here to gift a subscription, or you can support Block Club with a tax-deductible donation.

Listen to the Block Club Chicago podcast:

Listen On
Apple Podcasts
Listen On
Google Podcasts
Listen On
Spotify
Audio Player
‘Art For Zhegagoynak/Chicagoland’ Honors Indigenous Voices
‘Art For Zhegagoynak/Chicagoland’ Honors Indigenous Voices
Change Playback Rate1x
Go to previous episode
Skip Backward
Play Pause
Jump Forward
Skip to next episode
Share This Episode

00:00
00:00
Episode play icon
‘Art For Zhegagoynak/Chicagoland’ Honors Indigenous Voices
Episode play icon
Uber Wrongfully Charged Riders Downtown Congestion Fee For Months
Episode play icon
The West Side Teen Operating A Hair Salon In Her High School Bathroom
Episode play icon
The Illegal Junkyard Operating On City Property For A Decade
Episode play icon
Is The Mag Mile Staging A Comeback?
Load More
Tagged:Parks and Trails
Post navigation
Previous
Hyde Park’s Silver Room In ‘Dire Need’ To Raise $200K To Settle Block Party’s Debts, Owner Says
Next
As South Side Festivals Fade, Ald. Stephanie Coleman, Artists Fight To Keep Englewood Music Fest Alive
Community
Send News Tips
FAQ
Our Team
Board of Directors
Free Text Alerts
Staff Diversity Report
Press Room
Support Us!
Donate to Block Club Chicago
Donor Portal
Advertise
Our Supporters
Jobs
Media Kit
2024 Annual Report


EIN: 82-3844275

Block Club Chicago is a nonprofit news organization dedicated to delivering reliable, nonpartisan and essential coverage of Chicago’s diverse neighborhoods.

  
© 2025 Block Club Chicago
Powered by Newspack
Privacy Policy
Facebook Page
Instagram
Twitter
Bluesky
Threads
TikTok





